The Project Gutenberg eBook of Too many heroes
    
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Too many heroes

Author: Ray Humphreys


        
Release date: October 1, 2026 [eBook #79701]

Language: English

Original publication: New York, NY: Street & Smith Corporation, 1929

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/79701

Credits: Prepared by volunteers at BookCove (bookcove.net)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TOO MANY HEROES ***


                            Too Many Heroes

                            By Ray Humphreys
              Author of “Grandpa Takes ’Em for a Ride,” etc.


“Whar in thunder have yuh been all mawnin’?” demanded Sheriff Joe Cook
of Monte Vista, as his deputy, “Shorty” McKay, strolled into the office
at noon. “I been lookin’ fer yuh up one side o’ the town an’ down the
other!”

“I’ve been in the public library, boss,” said Shorty, as soothingly as
he could; but the sheriff was in no mood to be calmed by soft words. The
daring robbery of the Second National Bank the day before, when a lone,
masked bandit had made a successful get-away with three thousand dollars
in bank cash, had put the sheriff in bad humor.

“Been in the library, eh?” snarled Sheriff Cook angrily. “Been readin’
up on how to ketch bank robbers, no doubt, in some ol’ book that some
nut wrote a hundred years ago, I suppose! A lot o’ help yuh are—an’,
say, yuh wasn’t in the library, after all, come to think o’ it, ’cause I
stuck my haid in thar lookin’.”

“I left thar about eleven o’clock,” said Shorty meekly, “so yuh musta
been thar after that, boss. I left thar an’ went over to the Monte Vista
_Clarion_ office fer a bit——”

“Blabbin’ about how yuh was intendin’ to ketch the robber, I reckon!”
cut in Sheriff Cook hotly.

“No, lookin’ up the ol’ files thar,” said Shorty quickly. “Yuh see,
boss, thar’s a big feelin’ in town here that—waal, that the town oughter
do somethin’ handsome fer Max Hill, that hero cow-punch! Max might have
got that bank robber ef luck had been with him.”

“We gotta git that bank robber, whether luck is with us or not!” said
the sheriff tartly. “An’ as fer Max Hill——”

“He’s the hero o’ the hour!” reminded Shorty.

“Yes, he’s the hero o’ the hour, right enough,” admitted the sheriff,
“but what has that got to do with yuh wastin’ yuhr hull mawnin’ between
the public library an’ the Monte Vista _Clarion_ office? We got to git
the robber—clews or no clews. Gosh knows we’ve lost enough time already
without yuh vanishin’ fer a mawnin’ an’ holdin’ up matters! We gotta git
downright busy.”

Shorty grinned brazenly at his nettled boss.

“On what clews?” he asked meaningly. “Yuh know waal as I do, boss, we’ve
run down every idear we got! Nobody recognized that cooky as did the job
at the bank. He went in at noon, when everybody but Jim Holcomb, the
cashier, was out. He locked Jim in the vault, scooped up the cash, an’
blowed, an’ nobody seen him blowin’, after Jim Holcomb had touched off
the big gong alarm, but Max Hill. Max shot at him, but had no luck, an’
the robber disappeared—an’ left us with absolutely nuthin’ to start work
on.”

“I know all that, Shorty.”

“We chases up one road an’ down another,” went on Shorty swiftly; “we
has a posse scramblin’ hither an’ thither, but thar ain’t no clews!
Holcomb kain’t identify the bandit, an’ neither kin Max Hill; an’ the
robber seems to have vanished right inter the earth. We has nuthin’ to
go on, boss, as I said, an’ while we is markin’ time, waitin’ fer
somethin’ to kinda turn up, I kinda thought it would be nice fer us to
take the initiative in arrangin’ an affair in honor o’ Hero Hill, jus’
to show our appreciation o’ his efforts to shoot the bandit.”

Sheriff Cook’s eyebrows went up in a questioning arch.

“An affair?” he asked. “What kind o’ an affair?”

“Waal,” said Shorty, “the town should show honor to Max Hill in a
substantial way. But we’ve had other heroes in Monte before this. So I
got the idear that we could avoid jealousies an’ the like by havin’ a
big congress o’ heroes right here in town, to pay homage to Max Hill in
the fust place, an’ to honor all the livin’ local heroes in the second
place—speeches, music, mebbe a barbecue, a dance, a general good time.”

“Yeh?” drawled the sheriff, narrowing his gray eyes.

“Yeh!” agreed Shorty. “So I was over to the library lookin’ up the files
o’ the ol’ Monte Vista _Bugle_, which went extinct ten years ago. Then I
looked up the _Clarion_ files, too, makin’ a list o’ all the fellers as
could be considered heroes. Oh, yes, I was over to the chamber o’
commerce, too, seein’ Bill Webster, the secretary, about sendin’ out the
invitations to the different heroes fer Thursday, an’ he agreed. Then I
saw the mayor an’ got his promise o’ coöperation, along with the city
council; an’ I talked to Wade Mountford about arrangin’ the barbecue,
an’ to Tom Hartsell about the music—the Hartsell Happy Harmonizers will
play fer us. Mebbe yuh could make a speech, boss, an’——”

The sheriff got to his feet suddenly.

“Yes, dang yuh, Shorty, I kin make a speech, an’ I’m gonna make it right
now an’ not wait until day after to-morrow to do so!” The sheriff
pointed an accusing finger at Shorty. “The great trouble with yuh, Sap,
is that yuh kain’t ever foller a main idear in nuthin’. What we got to
do fust is to git that robber, afore we go entertainin’ any heroes. That
entertainin’ business is a secondary consideration. Fust, we gotta git
the robber.”

“How?” demanded Shorty suddenly.

“I dunno,” said the sheriff, frankly enough now that he was too angry to
mince words; “but we gotta git him. We won’t git him holdin’ no congress
o’ heroes! Yuh drap that idear until later. Yuh go git yuhr hoss an’
start ridin’—makin’ every dog-gone ranch on the Gun Barrel Road. I’ll
make all the places on the Wagon Wheel Gap Road. It’s a cinch that
robber didn’t git through any o’ the towns on the main roads, seein’ we
had ’em all warned half a hour after the robbery. He must be hidin’ out
here in the valley. We gotta run a fine comb over it fer him.”

“An’ all we know is—from the cashier an’ Max Hill—that the robber was
tall, masked, dressed in cowboy clothes, an’ rode a bay hoss,” said
Shorty. “Thar’s a thousand men in the valley would answer that
description. It’s like lookin’ fer a haystack in a needle, as the poet
said. It’s hopeless.”

“It ain’t hopeless,” retorted the sheriff.

“Waal——”

“Shorty, yuh do as I tell yuh afore I loses my temper in earnest an’
swings a jolt off yuhr jaw!” said the sheriff sullenly. “Git goin’! Git
goin’! Yuh hear me—git goin’!”

Shorty got going, naturally enough, but he did not go far. He put the
saddle on his pony and rode around a few blocks, hiding the horse in a
feed stable and hastening off to the city hall to further arrange
matters for the congress of heroes. The idea, Shorty had discovered, had
caught on like wildfire. It appealed to the popular fancy. The mayor and
the council were for it whole-heartedly. So was the Monte Vista
_Clarion_. So was everybody in town, it appeared, except the sheriff.
Every one felt that Max Hill, the Perry Park cow poke, deserved some
sort of recognition for his efforts to balk the holdup—even if those
efforts had been in vain.

The whole town knew what Max Hill had tried to do. Max had admitted it,
bashfully, after Lew Walker, the hardware dealer, had spread the story.
Max was in the Walker store, just putting some shells into a new rifle
he had purchased, when the big gong alarm over the front door of the
Second National Bank, across the street, had begun to sound. It was the
noon hour and few persons were on the street. At the sound of the alarm,
which Cashier Holcomb had set off the minute the bandit had locked him
in the vault, Lew Walker, who was in the back of the store, had yelled
to Max Hill:

“Max, that’s the bank robbery alarm goin’!”

“I know it!” Max had cried, making for the front door, rifle in hand. He
had raised it to his shoulder and was ready when the tall, masked bandit
had run from the bank, making for his waiting bay horse. Max had fired,
but—unfortunately—he had missed. And before Max could fire a second
time, the robber had spurred around the corner out of sight. There had
been immediate confusion. A posse was in the saddle inside of fifteen
minutes, but the bandit had vanished. And he had left no clews. So all
the townfolks could do, after the excitement had cooled off, was to
congratulate Max Hill on his nerve and daring, even if he had not hit
the robber.

“He may have hit him,” said Lew Walker proudly, “fer it was a good
rifle, an’ Max is a good shot; but ef he did hit him, he didn’t git him
in a vital spot.”

“I don’t think I hit him,” said the truthful Max Hill. He seemed quite
abashed by the attention paid him. The fact that he had missed the
bandit seemed to weigh heavily on him. Modesty—or regret—had sealed his
lips. He refused to talk much of the matter, merely shaking his head
sadly at any mention of it.

“All I kin say is that I’m sorry,” Max had announced.

But the town knew that Max deserved some token of appreciation. There
were mighty few men in Monte Vista who would have acted so quickly and
so utterly without thought of personal safety as had Max. He had not
wasted a second getting to the door. He had fired almost instantly. The
sad fact that he had missed could not be blamed on him. It was a pot
shot, at best. He had been using a brand-new rifle. The bandit had been
quick as a cat, too. So when Shorty had broached the idea of the
celebration to honor Max and all the other unsung heroes of the old cow
town, Monte Vista had agreed with a whoop.

The arrangements for the congress of heroes went on steadily. Shorty did
not ride the Gun Barrel Road that afternoon, as the sheriff had ordered.
He knew—or rather felt—that it was a wild-goose chase. He laughed
frequently as he busied himself with the celebration arrangements,
thinking what Sheriff Cook would say if he only knew what was going on.
But the sheriff did not know, luckily. The invitations to the congress
of heroes went out to the heroes on that afternoon’s mail. The sheriff,
coming in late in the evening from his fruitless ride along the Wagon
Wheel Gap Road, found Shorty waiting with a report for him.

“The bandit,” said Shorty, “don’t seem to be anywhars around the Gun
Barrel section. Yuh git any trace o’ him, boss?”

“No, I never,” admitted the sheriff sullenly. “To-morrow we tries the
other two roads, Shorty—the Alamosa an’ the Red Cliff Pikes. Yuh kin
take one an’ I’ll take the other. It’s about all that we kin do, I’m
afraid. I reckon the scamp has given us the slip.”

But Shorty rode neither the Alamosa nor the Red Cliff Pikes the next
day. The sheriff rode the latter, and he thought that Shorty was
patrolling the former. But not Shorty. There were a thousand-and-one
items to attend to in final preparation for the congress of heroes, and
Shorty, as originator and chairman of the committee in charge, was busy.

Wednesday night found everything arranged for the celebration on the
morrow. The grand jubilee was to open at noon with a rally in the park,
where the Hartsell Happy Harmonizers would render a selection entitled
“See, the Conquerin’ Hero Comes!” and after that Mayor Louie Swift would
welcome the heroes, introducing them to the crowd. Then would follow
speeches by the city councilmen, prominent citizens, and the local
preachers. The city marshal, Art Wachter, would then pin pretty red,
white, and blue ribbons on the breasts of the manly heroes, decorating
them, as it were. The sheriff would speak—perhaps—and after that would
come the great barbecue, more music, and the afternoon and evening would
be devoted to games and dancing.

Sheriff Cook, coming in “dog tired,” as he expressed it, from his long
day in the saddle on the Red Cliff Road, heard with indifference that
the town had just completed all arrangements for the big congress of
heroes’ celebration set for the following day in Monte Vista.

“Waal,” he sighed sadly, “I guess that’s about all we got left to do,
Shorty, come to think o’ it. We kin pay honor to Max Hill an’ figger
we’re doin’ our duty. Thar wasn’t a trace o’ hide or hair o’ that bandit
monkey on the Red Cliff Road. I went to every ranch in that territory.
How about yuh an’ the Alamosa Road?”

Shorty carefully crossed his fingers behind his back.

“Boss,” he said, choosing his words with precision, “I fell down, too.
It’s a blame shame, all right enough! Mebbe after the celebration fer
Max we kin start all over ag’in.”

The day for the congress of heroes broke clear and cool. The streets
were jammed early by the incoming ranchers and folks from as far away as
Gunsight, Como, Squaw Mountain, Globeville, Cherry Hills, and Lakewood.
The heroes began to dribble in, most of them on horseback, and some of
them accompanied by their families in buckboards. Most of them came in
with startled, awed expressions, because, until they had received the
invitations to appear, they had not realized that they were heroes. It
was a tardy celebration for some of them, who had performed their deeds
of valor many years before. But the crowds were happy. Frontier Park was
soon crowded. The Hartsell Happy Harmonizers were on the job, tooting
away. Popcorn and peanut venders were in competition with the band.
Mayor Louie Swift and Marshal Art Wachter and Deputy Shorty McKay were
bustling around. Monte Vista was all set to honor her heroes in splendid
style.

When noon came, the congress of heroes assembled on the wooden platform
erected in the center of the infield at Frontier Park. There were seven
heroes on hand, it appeared, including the hero of the hour—Max Hill. He
seemed quite uncomfortable, but he tried to grin despite his
embarrassment. A couple of the remaining six heroes were right at home,
however, perfectly willing to be lionized, it seemed. The remainder
appeared to be like Hill, doubtful as to the why and the wherefore of
all this fuss. The Hartsell Happy Harmonizers opened the program with a
raucous selection that drowned out the popcorn and peanut peddlers
without difficulty. Sheriff Cook, arriving late—and disgusted—took a
seat on the platform.

“Ladies an’ gents,” said Mayor Swift, rising after the music had ceased,
“it is with the greatest o’ pleasure that I stands here to introduce to
yuh all the great heroes o’ Monte Vister—men who have unselfishly risked
life an’ limb, dared death an’ disaster, _pooh-poohed_ at danger in
various forms, to render assistance to their feller man! They are worthy
successors, these seven heroes o’ Monte Vister, to that great ol’ hero
o’ ancient times, as Mr. McKay told me about this mawnin’—Nero, who
fiddled while ol’ Rome burned, riskin’ his life to finish a public
concert despite the cracklin’ o’ great flames all around him.”

There was thunderous applause from the spectators.

“An’ speakin’ o’ flames,” went on Mayor Swift grandly, making a great
arch with the fat, black, smoking cigar he held in his right hand, “I
desires to introduce to yuh at this time the fust o’ our famous heroes
that yuh sees gathered here on this platform with us in Monte Vister
to-day! I refers to Mr. Terrell Davis, the gent with the whiskers on the
far left end, who so distinguished hisself fifteen years ago, when,
unaided an’ with overwhelmin’ nerve, he run into the burnin’ Doc Brown
livery stable an’ drug out four valuable saddle hosses, worth all o’ a
hundred bucks per each, at a loss o’ his own eyebrows an’ a wallet
containin’ three dollars in cash which he lost while gropin’ in the
smoke fer the halter straps!”

The crowd roared its appreciation as Terrell Davis rose bashfully and
bobbed his head to the applause.

Doc Brown, in the audience, cupped his hands, at the height of the
uproar, and shouted a correction to Mayor Swift:

“I later sold one o’ them rescued hosses fer one hundred and twenty
dollars,” he cried, “tharby increasin’ my gratitude to Mr. Davis by
twenty dollars. I say, three whoopees fer Terrell Davis—hip, hip,
hooray!”

The crowd joined in on the three cheers.

“An’ next, in the way they are seated, is a man who needs no
introduction to yuh all to-day—Mr. Max Hill, famous cow poke, who is our
latest hero!” roared Mayor Swift. “He, without so much as a moment’s
hesitation, seized up a rifle from the Lew Walker hardware-store counter
an’ blazed away at the dare-devil bandit who had robbed the Second
National Bank here day before yesterday! It wasn’t Mr. Hill’s fault that
he didn’t wing that robber—mebbe he did wing him—but the feller didn’t
drap. It was not Hill’s fault that he didn’t drap! Max was handlin’ a
new rifle, an’ in this day an’ age rifles are not what they was once,
when our grandfathers hunted the U-tays an’ the Sigh-Ox Injuns in this
valley.”

There was another burst of thunderous applause, and another man arose in
the audience, cupped his hands, and shouted. He was Lew Walker, the
hardware dealer.

“Thar wasn’t nuthin’ wrong with that rifle!” he protested indignantly.
“I guarantee my rifles and I resents any such——”

But the crowd paid no heed. Mayor Swift was talking again.

“I now interduce the next hero, Mr. Al Cooper, who stopped that runaway
stage on the Platte River Road twelve years ago, steppin’ in front o’
said gallopin’ hosses an’ wavin’ his hat so furiously that stage
stopped!” said Mayor Swift. “Give him a hand, folks. That’s the
ticket—hooray fer Al Cooper!”

“An’ now,” said the mayor, as the applause for Al Cooper subsided, “we
go to our fourth hero, Mr. Earl Carpenter—the man who bravely swum
Cherry Creek the time o’ the great spring flood, rescuin’ several
families on the western bank by warnin’ them o’ the high waters, an’
leadin’ them an’ all their live stock, includin’ a large flock o’
imported Tottenberger—I think they was—goats to a cliff whar all was
safe. Mr. Carpenter!”

Again the park rocked with the clapping and shouting of the thousands of
hero worshipers. Mr. Carpenter rose and bowed.

“In addition to the three families an’ the goats,” he said loudly, “thar
was a number o’ Holstein milch keows, a maverick brindle steer, four
span young mules, two aged mares, a smooth-mouthed geldin’, three colts,
a shepherd dawg, an’ one cat!”

“Hooray fer Earl Carpenter!” yelled the crowds.

“Our fifth hero is Mr. Jack Elliott,” went on Mayor Swift, “the man who
got the Christmas mail through the ice blockade here years ago, bein’
forced to straddle a buckin’ broncho to do so! When his own hoss slipped
an’ fell on the ice on Berthoud Pass, Mr. Elliott caught up an unbroke
hoss in a snow drift, mounted him, an’ rid him inter town with the mail
sack over his shoulder, said mail bein’ distributed in record time right
here in Monte Vister, when the hoss started to buck, throwin’ Mr.
Elliott so hard that one insured package was busted, likewise Mr.
Elliott’s left ankle which laid him up in bed for two weeks.”

“I made good fer that insured package!” cried Elliott, above the
applause. “It cost me one dollar and thirty-four cents to do it, too!”

“Our sixth hero,” went on Mayor Swift, with a grand gesture toward the
right of the line of blushing heroes, “is none other than Mr. ‘Ace’
Barnhart, the man who was the fust youth to offer hisself as a
sacrifice—a hooman sacrifice, folks—fer the new doctor to vaccinate in
the fever scare here years ago! We all had our doubts about the doctor
an’ his needle jabbin’, but Ace was brave enough to volunteer, comin’
through fine, although it was afterward learned that the doctor was a
fake an’ that he had vaccinated Ace with plain water. Three cheers fer
Ace Barnhart!”

The crowds applauded wildly.

“Our seventh an’ final hero is”—Mayor Louie Swift hesitated and glanced
at the slip of paper he held in his hand, as if in doubt—“he is—Mr.
‘Pud’ Gregory, who, I am reliably informed, distinguished hisself as a
hero when he shot a bad man here some years ago jus’ when said bad man
was about to plug a half dozen holes through an innercent an’ unarmed
citizen. Three cheers fer Mr. Pud Gregory, folks—let ’er rip!”

The crowd let loose, but almost instantly Shorty McKay, who had been
seated on the platform, jumped to his feet. He ran out in front of the
mayor, holding up both hands for silence. The crowd, amazed, subsided,
just in time to hear Shorty shout.

“This man Gregory is a dog-gone impostor!” whooped Shorty. “His name was
put on the list through a error! He ain’t no hero! It’s all a mistake!
He’s such a coward that he hadn’t nerve enough to explain things to us,
but he comes up here with the real heroes to be honored! Gregory a
hero—bah! I hereby arrests him fer false pretenses, impersonatin’ a
hero, an’ receivin’ undue applause.”

The deputy laid violent hands on the surprised Gregory.

The crowd was in a furor immediately. There were many who had not
understood all that Shorty had said and were astounded at his treatment
of the man Gregory. There were others who, hearing the deputy’s
explanation and knowing Shorty was always on the square, were heart and
soul behind Shorty. Yells and catcalls, shouts and hisses, went up.
Mayor Swift sought to intervene. The sheriff got to his feet, yelling at
Shorty. Marshal Wachter was up, adding to the din. The city councilmen
were in confusion. Even Max Hill and the other distinguished heroes were
in the mêlée, but Shorty, wasting no time, dragged his unlucky captive,
Gregory, down from the platform and hustled him off across the field,
where the crowd was thinnest. It was plain that Gregory was going to
jail!

The congress of heroes threatened to break up in a riot.

“Gentlemen,” cried Mayor Swift, taking the situation in hand, “please to
be calm! This ain’t no way to pay honor to our great hero guests. I
assure yuh all will turn out nice! We’ll find out about Gregory—quiet
now, everybody—while City Marshal Art Wachter, assisted by Doc Brown,
comes up here an’ pins the honorary badges o’ red, white, an’ blue on
the breasts o’ our heroes! This way, Art an’ Doc—quiet everybody,
please! Yuh two gents arguin’ thar in front please postpone yuhr fight
until later.”

The crowd calmed gradually at the mayor’s insistent urging. There was a
lot of murmuring, however. A few in the throng ran out after the
disappearing Shorty and his protesting prisoner, Gregory; and among
those who ran was Sheriff Joe Cook, bubbling over with indignation. Max
Hill, the hero of the hour, also galloped out across the field. The bulk
of the crowd remained for the rest of the hero program, however. By the
time the sheriff, angered at what he termed his deputy’s rash
imprudence, reached the Monte Vista jail, Shorty had his prisoner safely
locked up in a cell. The sheriff had barely started to upbraid Shorty
for rashness, when in came the breathless Max Hill, the hero of the
hour, red-faced and raging.

“Shorty!” cried Max, interrupting the sheriff’s hot flow of words,
“what’s the idear o’ draggin’ Gregory off like yuh did? Whar is he? That
ain’t no way to bust up a program!”

“So I said!” put in Sheriff Cook.

“Gregory’s in jail,” said Shorty, scowling at Max Hill; “he’s a danged
faker. I don’t know how his name got on the list, or how he come to have
the nerve to git up on that platform when he must ’a’ knowed he was
invited through a error.”

Max Hill’s face was now livid with rage.

“Error nuthin’,” he cried furiously! “I know that Gregory bird! I’ll
tell yuh all somethin’—I was the innercent an’ unarmed citizen he saved
from bein’ murdered years ago by ‘Slats’ Langer, the gunman. It was
Gregory as saved my life—shootin’ Slats at risk o’ his own, after Slats
had already drawed his weapon.”

Shorty, instead of showing anger, laughed softly.

“Oh, is that so, Max?” he asked. “I didn’t know yuh knowed Gregory. It
all happened—what yuh say happened—so long ago that yuh must ’a’ been
jus’ a mere kid. Yuh ain’t never been very chummy with Gregory, ef he
did save yuhr life as yuh claim! How come that?”

“I never knowed the man’s name as saved me that day,” said Max Hill
sadly, “because I was, as yuh say, jus’ a kid. An’ the man didn’t wait
to interduce hisself after he shot Slats. But I recognized Gregory the
minnit I saw him on the platform ter-day as the man who had saved me;
an’ the mayor’s introduction o’ Gregory substantiated it when he tol’
how Gregory had saved an innercent citizen from a bad man. It was
Gregory that saved me. I recognized him easy by his stooped shoulders,
the way he holds his head to one side, an’——”

“Yuh recognized him the other day, too!” yelled Shorty.

“What?” asked Hill.

“Yuh recognized him the other day, too, I said!” repeated Shorty
sternly. “I’ll tell yuh what I got Gregory in jail fer, Max. I got him
in the coop fer bank robbery! He’s confessed. An’ I say ag’in that yuh
recognized him the other day when yuh saw that bank robber comin’ out o’
the Second State Bank, Max—that’s why yuh missed him. Yuh might as well
own up to that!”

Max Hill’s face had gone chalky white. He looked from Shorty to the
startled sheriff. Then he nodded his head.

“Ef he’s confessed,” he said wearily, “I guess I might as waal admit
that I did recognize him, Shorty, as yuh say; an’ that that was the
reason I didn’t kill him—gratitude, I reckon, fer what he did to me. But
I didn’t know his name until to-day—an’——”

Max Hill choked up suddenly.

“It was Gregory robbed the bank, wasn’t it?” persisted Shorty.

“Yes,” said Hill, and he sighed in evident relief.

“Yuh go back to the celebration, Max,” said Shorty kindly. “I guess yuh
better not say anything about this, either. But I don’t blame yuh
altogether fer not squawkin’ on Gregory. Yuh didn’t know his name,
although yuh might have told us the truth why yuh didn’t shoot him
comin’ out o’ the bank. Yuh go along, Max, we’ll have to have yuh appear
later agin’ Gregory; but jus’ now yuh’re needed at the celebration. Go
on back, brace up, an’ keep mum.”

“All right,” said the unhappy Hill, and departed.

“Great guns!” exploded Sheriff Cook, wiping his forehead with his
handkerchief. “How yuh do it, Shorty, beats me! How did yuh know it was
Gregory pulled the bank job, an’ how did yuh make him confess so quick?
I don’t git it.”

Shorty laughed again.

“He ain’t confessed yet,” he said, “but he will, as soon as he knows Max
Hill has identified him. I had to let Max think he had confessed. An’ I
never was sure it was Gregory did the robbery until Max Hill admitted it
here a second ago. Fust off, boss, we had no clews to go on. The bank
cashier, bein’ new in town, hadn’t recognized Gregory. We had guarded
the roads an’ notified the other towns, however, so the robber couldn’t
git outta the valley. Apparently, he never tried to do so. That meant
the robber was a local feller.

“I got to thinkin’ it was mighty funny that Max Hill, bein’ so
fortunately near at the time, an’ such a crack shot, hadn’t hit the
bandit. Thar was some talk that he had hit him, but not in a vital spot.
I examined the front o’ the bank buildin’ carefully, with a ladder, an’
found whar Hill’s bullet had struck, away up high, above the door. A
good shot like Max couldn’t have missed like that, unless purposely. Max
was so queerly silent, too. I knowed, o’ course, that Max was too honest
to be in on the robbery, but I got to thinkin’ why Max would have
purposely failed to hit the man. I decided that Max did miss purposely,
an’ all because he recognized the man at the moment before he fired. He
didn’t have time to figger out an alibi why he shouldn’t fire at all—so
he shot—but shot high!

“Why should Max pertect a bank robber? It could be nuthin’ but a case of
gratitude. Who had ever done anything fer Max? I looked up the old
files, findin’ that ol’ story about the killin’ o’ Slats Langer, bad
man, years ago, by an unknown hero jus’ as Slats was about to plug Max
in a drunken fury. The newspaper accounts said that no one knew just who
had fired from the hip to save Max, but the account did name the men in
the place at the time—Jean Bosquet, Harry Tarvin, Horace Stewart, Ralph
Brady, Pud Gregory. A little interviewin’ o’ ol’-timers developed the
fact that Pud was thought to have been the man, although he had never
bragged o’ it, an’ the indifferent investigation at the time hadn’t
proved it.

“So I had to figure a way to git Pud in town; git him to admit bein’ the
hero o’ the ol’ gun fight; see that Max recognized him; git Pud in jail,
an’ pretend to Max that he had confessed the bank robbery. I decided on
the congress o’ heroes. I had the mayor, who was in with me on the
scheme, sound out Pud, an’ Pud admitted that he was the ol’-time hero o’
the gun fight that saved Max Hill years ago.

“I saw Max start as he recognized Gregory on the hero stand to-day. When
I accused Gregory o’ bein’ a faker, I figured Max Hill would be right
around to stand up fer the man who had saved his life. Then, springin’
the bank confession on Max, I thought Max would admit it. He did. Yuh
see, boss, Max wasn’t intentionally shieldin’ Gregory, seein’ Max didn’t
know Gregory by name; but Max did purposely miss the bandit because o’
gratitude—he couldn’t kill the man who had saved him. All I needed,
therefore, was to parade the bandit afore Max ag’in, see Max recognize
him, have Max come to his aid when I accused Gregory o’ fakin’, an’ then
kid Max inter admittin’ it was Gregory he recognized comin’ out o’ the
bank. Simple enough, wasn’t it?”

Sheriff Cook gulped before he replied.

“Simple enough,” he grunted, “ef yuh got a scrambled brain, Shorty, as
kin work around in forty-eleven different directions all to once an’
wind up coherently, after all—like yuh has! I reckon we might as waal go
an’ git a confession from Gregory, after which we kin return to the
congress o’ heroes; an’ ef I don’t miss my guess, I’ll nominate yuh fer
that vacant cheer once occupied by Pud Gregory. Any man as kin think
backward, forward, sideways, and upside down, all to once, is a hero
sure enough! An’ I reckon the crowd, hearin’ yuh jailed the bank robber,
will give yuh more applause than it gave all the other six heroes put
together—an’ I don’t mean mebbe!”


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Transcriber’s Note

This etext was produced from _Western Story Magazine_, March 30, 1929.

Obvious typographical and printing errors have been corrected without
note. Period spellings, inconsistent hyphenation, and the author’s
punctuation and dialect have otherwise been left as printed.

Italic text is shown _like this_.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TOO MANY HEROES ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG™ LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg™ License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 41 Watchung Plaza #516,
Montclair NJ 07042, USA, +1 (862) 621-9288. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


